README.md, before:

# Potree Core 2.1


Project based on Potree Core and come updates made during potree developement including:

ThreeJS webGL modernization to webgl2
Probable WebGPU modernization in the roadmap.

Addition of InputHandler
Classification and Clipping
Geospatial and Globe compatibility
Addition of extra rendereables and custom graphical objects.

Attention for single page applications, providing proper cleanup and reinitialization.
An API for interacting and scripting, including:
   Pointcloud custom styling based on attribute values and gradients.
   Custom navigatiopn tools
   Raycasting tools and util functions.
   Query tools based on raycasting and other tools.   

Custom controllers.


Measurement Tools

Annotations
Profiles
Tween reintegration

Vector rendering and custom materials for line and polygon rendering for gis vector visualization.
















.





[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/potree-core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/potree-core)
[![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/tentone%2Fpotree-core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/gh/tentone%2Fpotree-core)

 - This project was originally based on [Potree Viewer 1.6](https://github.com/potree/potree) and is now since version 2.0 based on the [shiukaheng fork](https://github.com/shiukaheng/potree-loader) of the [Potree-Loader](https://github.com/pnext/three-loader).
 - Potree is a web based pouint cloud visualizer project created by Markus Schütz.
 - This project contains only the main parts of the potree project adapted to be more easily used as a independent library, the code was adapted from the original repositorys.
 - Support for pointclouds from LAS, LAZ, Binary files.
 - Some features require support for the following GL extensions
   - EXT_frag_depth, WEBGL_depth_texture, OES_vertex_array_object

## Demo
 - Live demo at https://tentone.github.io/potree-core/
 - Double click the models to raycast the scene and create marker points.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tentone/potree-core/master/screenshot.png" width="700">


## Example
 - The project can be build running the commands `npm install` and `npm run build`.
 - Download the potree build from the build folder or add it to your project using NPM.
 - Include it alonside the worker folder in your project (can be found on the source folder).
 - The build is a ES module, that can be imported to other projects, threejs should be available as a peer dependency.
 - Bellow its a fully functional example of how to use this wrapper to load potree point clouds to a three.js project

```javascript
const scene = new Scene();
const camera = new PerspectiveCamera(60, 1, 0.1, 10000);

const canvas = document.getElementById("canvas");

const renderer = new WebGLRenderer({canvas:canvas});

const geometry = new BoxGeometry(1, 1, 1);
const material = new MeshBasicMaterial({color: 0x00ff00});
const cube = new Mesh(geometry, material);
scene.add(cube);

const controls = new OrbitControls(camera, canvas);
camera.position.z = 10;

const pointClouds = [];

const baseUrl = "data/test/";
const potree = new Potree();
potree.loadPointCloud("cloud.js", url => `${baseUrl}${url}`,).then(function(pco) {
   scene.add(pco);
	pointClouds.push(pco);
});

function loop()
{
   potree.updatePointClouds(pointClouds, camera, renderer);

	controls.update();
	renderer.render(scene, camera);

	requestAnimationFrame(loop);
};
loop();
```

## Custom Request Manager
   - The potree core library uses a custom request manager to handle the loading of point cloud data.
   - The request manager can be replaced by a custom implementation, for example to use a custom caching system or to handle requests in a different way.

   ```javascript
   class CustomRequestManager implements RequestManager 
   {
      fetch(input: RequestInfo | URL, init?: RequestInit): Promise<Response> {
         throw new Error("Method not implemented.")
      }

      async getUrl(url: string): Promise<string> {
         return url;
      }
   }
   ```   

## Notes
 - Since potree-core is meant to be used as library and not as a full software as potree some features are not available.
 - EDL shading is not supported by potree core.
 - Removed classification and clipping functionality.
 - Removed Arena 4D point cloud support.
 - Removed Entwine Point Tile file support.
 - GUI elements were removed from the library
   - PotreeViewer
   - Controls, Input, GUI, Tools
   - Anotations, Actions, ProfileRequest
   - Potree.startQuery, Potree.endQuery and Potree.resolveQueries
   - Potree.timerQueries
   - Potree.MOUSE, Potree.CameraMode
   - PotreeRenderer, RepRenderer, Potree.Renderer
     - JQuery, TWEEN and Proj4 dependencies


## Potree Converter
 - Use the (Potree Converter)[https://github.com/potree/PotreeConverter/releases] tool to create point cloud data from LAS, ZLAS or BIN point cloud files
 - Potree Converter 1.8 creates a multi file structure with each node as an individual file.
 - Potree Converter 2.1 creates a single file for all points and separates files for hierarchy index, its faster to create files. Requires a HTTP server configured for file streaming.
 - Tool to create hierarquical structure used for point-cloud rendering using potree-core.
 - There are two main versions 2.1 witch generates 4 contained files with point data, hierarchy, 
 - To generate a folder output from a input file run the command `.\PotreeConverter '..\input.laz' -o ../output`


### TXT2LAS
 - The potree converter tool only supports las and laz files, so textural file formats such as .pts, .xyz, have to be first converted into a supported format.
 - The TXT2LAS tool from the (LASTools)[https://github.com/LAStools/LAStools] repository can be used for this effect.
 - To run the tool use the command `.\txt2las64 -i input.pts -ipts -parse xyziRGB  -set_scale 0.001 0.001 0.001 -set_version 1.4 -o output.laz`


 ### To Do
 - Supports logarithmic depth buffer (just by enabling it on the threejs renderer), useful for large scale visualization.
 - Point clouds are automatically updated, frustum culling is used to avoid unnecessary updates (better update performance for multiple point clouds).

Commit message:

WIP . Initial migration changes for newer three js versions.

README.md, after:

# Potree Core 2.1


Project based on Potree Core and some updates made during potree developement including:

ThreeJS webGL modernization to webgl2
Probable WebGPU modernization in the roadmap.

Addition of InputHandler
Classification and Clipping
Geospatial and Globe compatibility
Addition of extra rendereables and custom graphical objects.

Attention for single page applications, providing proper cleanup and reinitialization.
An API for interacting and scripting, including:
   Pointcloud custom styling based on attribute values and gradients.
   Custom navigatiopn tools
   Raycasting tools and util functions.
   Query tools based on raycasting and other tools.   

Custom controllers.


Measurement Tools

Annotations
Profiles
Tween reintegration

Vector rendering and custom materials for line and polygon rendering for gis vector visualization.

Is expected to use only newer pointcloud reader versions based on single file format.




[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/potree-core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/potree-core)
[![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/tentone%2Fpotree-core.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/gh/tentone%2Fpotree-core)

 - This project was originally based on [Potree Viewer 1.6](https://github.com/potree/potree) and is now since version 2.0 based on the [shiukaheng fork](https://github.com/shiukaheng/potree-loader) of the [Potree-Loader](https://github.com/pnext/three-loader).
 - Potree is a web based pouint cloud visualizer project created by Markus Schütz.
 - This project contains only the main parts of the potree project adapted to be more easily used as a independent library, the code was adapted from the original repositorys.
 - Support for pointclouds from LAS, LAZ, Binary files.
 - Some features require support for the following GL extensions
   - EXT_frag_depth, WEBGL_depth_texture, OES_vertex_array_object

## Demo
 - Live demo at https://tentone.github.io/potree-core/
 - Double click the models to raycast the scene and create marker points.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tentone/potree-core/master/screenshot.png" width="700">


## Example
 - The project can be build running the commands `npm install` and `npm run build`.
 - Download the potree build from the build folder or add it to your project using NPM.
 - Include it alonside the worker folder in your project (can be found on the source folder).
 - The build is a ES module, that can be imported to other projects, threejs should be available as a peer dependency.
 - Bellow its a fully functional example of how to use this wrapper to load potree point clouds to a three.js project

```javascript
const scene = new Scene();
const camera = new PerspectiveCamera(60, 1, 0.1, 10000);

const canvas = document.getElementById("canvas");

const renderer = new WebGLRenderer({canvas:canvas});

const geometry = new BoxGeometry(1, 1, 1);
const material = new MeshBasicMaterial({color: 0x00ff00});
const cube = new Mesh(geometry, material);
scene.add(cube);

const controls = new OrbitControls(camera, canvas);
camera.position.z = 10;

const pointClouds = [];

const baseUrl = "data/test/";
const potree = new Potree();
potree.loadPointCloud("cloud.js", url => `${baseUrl}${url}`,).then(function(pco) {
   scene.add(pco);
	pointClouds.push(pco);
});

function loop()
{
   potree.updatePointClouds(pointClouds, camera, renderer);

	controls.update();
	renderer.render(scene, camera);

	requestAnimationFrame(loop);
};
loop();
```

## Custom Request Manager
   - The potree core library uses a custom request manager to handle the loading of point cloud data.
   - The request manager can be replaced by a custom implementation, for example to use a custom caching system or to handle requests in a different way.

   ```javascript
   class CustomRequestManager implements RequestManager 
   {
      fetch(input: RequestInfo | URL, init?: RequestInit): Promise<Response> {
         throw new Error("Method not implemented.")
      }

      async getUrl(url: string): Promise<string> {
         return url;
      }
   }
   ```   

## Notes
 - Since potree-core is meant to be used as library and not as a full software as potree some features are not available.
 - EDL shading is not supported by potree core.
 - Removed classification and clipping functionality.
 - Removed Arena 4D point cloud support.
 - Removed Entwine Point Tile file support.
 - GUI elements were removed from the library
   - PotreeViewer
   - Controls, Input, GUI, Tools
   - Anotations, Actions, ProfileRequest
   - Potree.startQuery, Potree.endQuery and Potree.resolveQueries
   - Potree.timerQueries
   - Potree.MOUSE, Potree.CameraMode
   - PotreeRenderer, RepRenderer, Potree.Renderer
     - JQuery, TWEEN and Proj4 dependencies


## Potree Converter
 - Use the (Potree Converter)[https://github.com/potree/PotreeConverter/releases] tool to create point cloud data from LAS, ZLAS or BIN point cloud files
 - Potree Converter 1.8 creates a multi file structure with each node as an individual file.
 - Potree Converter 2.1 creates a single file for all points and separates files for hierarchy index, its faster to create files. Requires a HTTP server configured for file streaming.
 - Tool to create hierarquical structure used for point-cloud rendering using potree-core.
 - There are two main versions 2.1 witch generates 4 contained files with point data, hierarchy, 
 - To generate a folder output from a input file run the command `.\PotreeConverter '..\input.laz' -o ../output`


### TXT2LAS
 - The potree converter tool only supports las and laz files, so textural file formats such as .pts, .xyz, have to be first converted into a supported format.
 - The TXT2LAS tool from the (LASTools)[https://github.com/LAStools/LAStools] repository can be used for this effect.
 - To run the tool use the command `.\txt2las64 -i input.pts -ipts -parse xyziRGB  -set_scale 0.001 0.001 0.001 -set_version 1.4 -o output.laz`


 ### To Do
 - Supports logarithmic depth buffer (just by enabling it on the threejs renderer), useful for large scale visualization.
 - Point clouds are automatically updated, frustum culling is used to avoid unnecessary updates (better update performance for multiple point clouds).
